Now let's talk about
collecting data
and look at an
example application.
For this example, we're
going to be looking at
an application that
suggests runs to runners.
There's different runners with
different level of fitness.
The first step is
really to try to
understand the users
as we've discussed.
This system is going to
suggest runs based on
the user's behavior and by
leveraging observed
patterns and preferences.
The goal is to improve the
consistency of running
and for runners to complete
those runs and to really
be happy about that.
Some key considerations.
First of all,
you need to consider data
quality and data collection.
What kind of data and how
much data do you need?
How often do you need new data?
When do you expect
things to change?
Is that data annotated?
You also need to translate
the user needs into data needs.
Understand the user's grade
but at the end of the day we
do need features and data.
We need to first understand
the user because otherwise
we run the risk of
collecting a bunch of data
that is really just garbage.
But once we understand the user,
then we need to translate the
user needs into data needs.
We're going to do that with
identifying what the data is,
what the features are
and what the labels are.
Here's an example data set.
We've got three different
examples here for
three different kinds of
runs and we've got some features.
The examples here are
the Boston Marathon,
the Seattle Oktoberfest 5K and
the Houston Half-marathon.
The 5K sounds good to me,
I'm that kind of a runner.
The features well,
the Run itself,
the Runner Time
and the Elevation,
which is also important.
Then the labels here are just
going to be how the runner
rates the fun level
of those runs.
It looks like they
agree with me that
the 5K sounds like it'd be
a lot of fun. Get
to know your data.
You need to identify
the data sources that
you're going to use,
where are you going to get
this data and not just the
first time but on
an ongoing basis?
It's not just the training
but you need to collect
that same data,
for you not to do inference
when you want to
create a prediction.
You need to think about,
how often do I need to
refresh my trainings at?
Along the way when you're
working with your data,
you need to make
sure that there's
actually predictive
value, in your data.
Anyone trying to make
sure that you've
eliminated features and data
that does not have
predictive value.
But there's also some
more basic things like,
is the data consistent?
When you're expecting,
say a float do
you always get a
floater or is it mixed?
Looking for things like
outliers too or just errors.
Because remember, you're
dealing with systems you
could have a sensor that goes
bad and then you got an error.
There could be data issues coming
from different measurements,
different types and
also simple things like
the difference between
an end to the float
or how missing value is encoded,
that can all cause problems.
In this example data set,
if the elevation is zero feet,
does that really mean
that we're at sea level
or does it mean
that we don't have
any elevation data
for that record?
If the output is coming from
other ML models maybe if
you're using an ensemble.
If there's errors in those,
then you can compound
those errors when you try to
use it in a downstream model.
You also want to make
sure that you're
looking for errors
and issues early in
the process and monitoring
the data sources for
system issues and outages.
Because remember, we're
operating this thing,
could be 24-7 easily,
a lot of things are.
Also, you need to expect to
have system issues and outages.
What if the app was
offline for a while and
the recorded runner time is
wrong for some number of users,
do you have ways
to deal with that?
Measuring the data effectiveness,
you need some intuition
about the data value,
but your intuition
can be misleading.
You really need to make
sure that you're looking at
which data is really giving
you the most information.
Feature selection and feature
engineering are really
critical to shaping your data
to be what you need it to be.
The feature engineering
will help you maximize
the predictive signals once
you've really identified
where those are.
Feature selection,
that helps you measure
where that predictive
information is and
really focus in on
those features that give you
the most value and help
your model the most.
Again, user needs.
You need to understand
the user and
the application and in this case,
we're looking at running
data from an app.
We can get demographic data when
the user fills out
their profile and we
also probably can
get some GPS data to
give us some local
geographic information.
At high level that helps
us understand the user.
Then we need to translate
that into features.
The runner demographics,
we need to express
that as a feature or
probably several features.
Things like the time of day,
how long it takes them
to complete a run,
their pace during the run,
the distance and so forth,
the elevation and if we're
working with an app that has
some sensors like a
heart rate monitor,
that's great information to
have to really feed
into this app,
probably has some
predictive information.
But again, we need to test that.
What our labels going to be?
Runner acceptance in this case
is a label that we
want to focus on.
Runners that take our
suggestions and use them.
That tells us that the app
successfully gave them
a run that they wanted
to do and conversely,
if they rejected it.
User-generated feedback.
You need to think
about, first of all,
how they're going to give
you that feedback in
a structured way that you can
use to help with
training your model.
Then you know things
like user rating.
In this case of the enjoyment
of the recommended runs.
Again, it needs to be in
a form that we can use.
It can't just be free form
unless you're going to
do NLP to try to
understand their paragraph of
feedback but typically
you're not going to do that.
But anyway, the point here is
that you need to understand
the data and your user
and how you're going
to apply the labels.
Key points: understand your
user or your application,
if there is no user,
translate their needs
into data problems
and well-defined features that
give you predictive information.
What kind of data can you
get? What's available?
What are the details and
issues for your data?
Things like sensors.
How reliable are they?
Where's the predictive
information in your data?
It may not be where you think
it is, it sometimes isn't.
What are the labels? We
need to make sure that
we're training a model to
predict the right thing.
We need to make sure our labels
are the correct
ones for our goals.
That's going to get
to the metrics.
What are the metrics that
we're going to use to measure
the performance of our model?